# DDD

Domain-Driven Design (DDD) is an approach for building high-quality products
that meet the needs of a business and its customers. It emphasizes collaboration
among domain experts, product managers, designers, engineers, and other
disciplines to create a _domain model_ that reflects these needs. This involves
agreeing on common terminology, identifying business entities, and documenting
the relationships between those entities and their behavior.

Why is this important? I have seen many projects delayed or even fail because
the team did not understand the domain or the needs of the business clearly.
There may be confusion because team members use similar terms that have
overlapping meaning. This results in incorrect interpretation of requirements, a
mismatch between front-end and back-end concepts, confusing APIs, confusing
terms that your customers don't understand, and a whole slew of other problems.

On a recent project, my team debated the differences between _alerts_,
_notifications_, and _events_ because these terms were being used
interchangeably. No one had clear definitions in their heads. This costed us
several weeks of productivity. Does this scenario sound familiar? Domain-Driven
Design is the tried-and-tested way to solve this problem. Many successful
organizations depend on it to clearly articulate domain concepts and deliver
mission-critical systems.

This article explains how to use DDD, the concepts you'll need to know, and how
to work with your team to build high-quality products. It is geared toward
technical and non-technical readers. The first three sections (including this
section, 2 – Ubiquitous Language, and 3 – Domain Model) gently introduce
everyone to these concepts. If you are an engineer, go through the remaining
sections to understand how to translate the domain model into a working
implementation.

We'll use the example of a sample trading application, called Bullsfirst along
the way. Here's what the application looks like:

Bullsfirst allows traders to open an account at a brokerage firm. They can then
place orders to buy and sell securities. The brokerage firm places the orders in
an exchange where they can be executed.
